README.md, before:

<div align="center"> <a name="readme-top"></a>

![TEN Agent banner](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/banner.jpg?raw=true)

[![Follow on X](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/TenFramework?logo=X&color=%20%23f5f5f5)](https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=TenFramework)
[![Discussion posts](https://img.shields.io/github/discussions/TEN-framework/ten-agent?labelColor=%20%23FDB062&color=%20%23f79009)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/discussions/)
[![Commits](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/TEN-framework/ten-agent?labelColor=%20%237d89b0&color=%20%235d6b98)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/graphs/commit-activity)
[![Issues closed](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search?query=repo%3ATEN-framework%2Ften-agent%20is%3Aclosed&label=issues%20closed&labelColor=green&color=green)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/issues)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/pulls)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg?labelColor=%20%23155EEF&color=%20%23528bff)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/LICENSE)

[![Discord TEN Community](https://dcbadge.vercel.app/api/server/VnPftUzAMJ)](https://discord.gg/VnPftUzAMJ)

[![GitHub watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/TEN-framework/ten-agent?style=social&label=Watch)](https://GitHub.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/watchers/?WT.mc_id=academic-105485-koreyst)
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/TEN-framework/ten-agent?style=social&label=Fork)](https://GitHub.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/network/?WT.mc_id=academic-105485-koreyst)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/TEN-framework/ten-agent?style=social&label=Star)](https://GitHub.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/stargazers/?WT.mc_id=academic-105485-koreyst)

<a href="https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/README.md"><img alt="README in English" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/English-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-CN.md"><img alt="简体中文操作指南" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/简体中文-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-JP.md"><img alt="日本語のREADME" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/日本語-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-KR.md"><img alt="README in 한국어" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/한국어-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-ES.md"><img alt="README en Español" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Español-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-FR.md"><img alt="README en Français" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Français-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-IT.md"><img alt="README in Italiano" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Italiano-lightgrey"></a>

[Documentation](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/overview)
<span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
[Getting Started](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/getting_started)
<span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
[TEN Framework Repository](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten_framework)

<a href="https://trendshift.io/repositories/11978" target="_blank"><img src="https://trendshift.io/api/badge/repositories/11978" alt="TEN-framework%2FTEN-Agent | Trendshift" style="width: 250px; height: 55px;" width="250" height="55"/></a>

</div>

<br>

<details open>
  <summary><kbd>Table of Contents</kbd></summary>

#### Table of Contents

- [👋 Getting Started & Join TEN Community](#-getting-started--join-ten-community)
- [✨ Features](#-features)
  - [1️⃣ 🔥 TEN Agent + MCP](#1️⃣--ten-agent--mcp)
  - [2️⃣ TEN Agent + Trulience](#2️⃣-ten-agent--trulience)
  - [3️⃣ TEN Agent + Deepseek](#3️⃣-ten-agent--deepseek)
  - [4️⃣ TEN Agent + ESP32](#4️⃣-ten-agent--esp32)
  - [5️⃣ TEN Agent + Gemini Multimodal Live API](#5️⃣-ten-agent--gemini-multimodal-live-api)
  - [6️⃣ TEN Agent + Storyteller + Image Generator](#6️⃣-ten-agent--storyteller--image-generator)
  - [7️⃣ TEN Agent + Dify](#7️⃣-ten-agent--dify)
  - [8️⃣ TEN Agent + Coze](#8️⃣-ten-agent--coze)
- [💡 TEN Agent Usecases](#-ten-agent-usecases)
- [🧩 Ready to use Extensions](#-ready-to-use-extensions)
- [🛝 TEN Agent Playground](#-ten-agent-playground)
  - [️️🅰 Run Playground in `localhost`](#🅰️-run-playground-in-localhost)
  - [️🅱 Run Playground in Codespace(no docker)](#🅱️-run-playground-in-codespaceno-docker)
- [👀 TEN Agent Demo](#-ten-agent-demo)
- [🛳️ Self Hosting](#️-self-hosting)
  - [🅰 Deploying with Docker](#🅰️--deploying-with-docker)
  - [🅱 Deploying with other services](#🅱️-deploying-with-other-services)
- [🏗️ TEN Agent Architecture](#️-ten-agent-architecture)
- [🌍 TEN Framework Ecosystem](#-ten-framework-ecosystem)
- [🥰 Contributing](#-contributing)

<br/>

</details>

## 👋 Getting Started & Join TEN Community

TEN Agent is a conversational voice AI agent powered by TEN, integrating **DeepSeek**, **Gemini**, **OpenAI**, **RTC**, and hardware like **ESP32**. It enables realtime AI capabilities like seeing, hearing, and speaking, and is fully compatible with platforms like **Dify** and **Coze**.

<br>

| Community Channel | Purpose |
|------------------|----------|
| [![Discord TEN Community](https://dcbadge.vercel.app/api/server/VnPftUzAMJ?&style=flat&theme=light&color=lightgray)](https://discord.gg/VnPftUzAMJ) | Join our Discord community to connect with developers |
| [![Follow on X](https://img.shields.io/badge/TenFramework-692_Followers-07C160?logo=x&labelColor=blue&color=gray)](https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=TenFramework) | Follow TEN Framework on X for updates and announcements |
|[![WeChat](https://img.shields.io/badge/TEN_Framework-1K+_members-%2307C160?logo=wechat&labelColor=darkgreen&color=gray)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/discussions/170) | Join our WeChat group for Chinese community discussions |

<br>

> \[!IMPORTANT]
>
> **Star Our Repository** ⭐️
>
> Get instant notifications for new releases and updates. Your support helps us grow and improve TEN Agent!

<br>

![TEN star us gif](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/star_us_2.gif?raw=true)

<details>
  <summary><kbd>Star History</kbd></summary>
  <picture>
    <img width="100%" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=ten-framework/ten-agent&type=Date">
  </picture>
</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## ✨ Features

### 1️⃣ 🔥 TEN Agent + MCP

TEN Agent supports MCP server now,run Playground and simply paste in any MCP server from [mcp.io](https://mcp.so), you can now talk to TEN Agent with any MCP server.

</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

### 2️⃣ TEN Agent + Trulience

Build engaging AI avatars with TEN Agent using [Trulience](https://trulience.com)'s diverse collection of free avatar options. To get it up and running, you only need 2 steps:

1. Follow the README to finish setting up and running the Playground in `localhost:3000`
2. Enter the avatar ID and [token](https://trulience.com/docs#/authentication/jwt-tokens/jwt-tokens?id=use-your-custom-userid) you get from [Trulience](https://trulience.com)

<details>
  <summary><kbd>TEN Agent + Trulience</kbd></summary>

  <br>
  <picture>

  ![TEN Agent with Trulience](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/ten-trulience.gif?raw=true)

  </picture>

</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 3️⃣ TEN Agent + DeepSeek

TEN is a very versatile framework. That said, TEN Agent is compatible with DeepSeek R1, try experiencing realtime conversations with DeepSeek R1!

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 4️⃣ TEN Agent + ESP32

TEN Agent is now running on the Espressif ESP32-S3 Korvo V3 development board, an excellent way to integrate realtime communication with LLM on hardware.

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 5️⃣ TEN Agent + Gemini Multimodal Live API

Try Google Gemini Multimodal Live API with realtime vision and realtime screenshare detection capabilities, it is a ready-to-use extension, along with powerful tools like Weather Check and Web Search integrated perfectly into TEN Agent.

<details>
  <summary><kbd>Gemini 2.0 Multimodal Live API</kbd></summary>

  <br>
  <picture>

  ![Usecases](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/gemini.gif?raw=true)

  </picture>

</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 6️⃣ TEN Agent + Storyteller + Image Generator

Describe a topic and ask TEN Agent to tell you a story while also generating images of the story to provide a more immersive experience for kids.

<details>
  <summary><kbd>Storyteller + Image Generator</kbd></summary>

  <br>
  <picture>

  ![Usecases](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/storyteller_image_generator.jpg?raw=true)

  </picture>

</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 7️⃣ TEN Agent + Dify

  [TEN Agent + Dify](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/quickstart-1/use-cases/run_va/run_dify)  

TEN offers a great support to make the realtime interactive experience even better on other LLM platform as well, check out docs for more.

<details>
  <summary><kbd>TEN Agent + Dify with RAG</kbd></summary>

  <br>
  <picture>

  ![Dify with RAG](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/dify-rag.gif?raw=true)

  </picture>

</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 8️⃣ TEN Agent + Coze

  [TEN Agent + Coze](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/quickstart-1/use-cases/run_va/run_coze)  

TEN seamlessly integrates with Coze platform to enhance real-time interactive experiences. Check out our documentation to learn how to leverage these powerful integrations.

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 💡 TEN Agent Usecases

![Usecases](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/usecases.jpg?raw=true)

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🧩 Ready-to-use Extensions

![Ready-to-use Extensions](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/extensions.jpg?raw=true)

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🛝 TEN Agent Playground

#### 🅰️ Run Playground in localhost

#### Step ⓵ - Prerequisites

| Category | Requirements |
|----------|-------------|
| **Keys** | • Agora [App ID](https://docs.agora.io/en/video-calling/get-started/manage-agora-account?platform=web#create-an-agora-project) and [App Certificate](https://docs.agora.io/en/video-calling/get-started/manage-agora-account?platform=web#create-an-agora-project) (free minutes every month) <br>• [OpenAI](https://openai.com/index/openai-api/) API key (any LLM that is compatible with OpenAI)<br>• [Deepgram](https://deepgram.com/) ASR (free credits available with signup)<br>• [Elevenlabs](https://elevenlabs.io/) TTS (free credits available with signup)|
| **Installation** | • [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) / [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)<br>• [Node.js(LTS) v18](https://nodejs.org/en) |
| **Minimum System Requirements** | • CPU >= 2 Core<br>• RAM >= 4 GB |

<br>

> \[!NOTE]
>
> **macOS: Docker setting on Apple Silicon**
>
> Uncheck "Use Rosetta for x86/amd64 emulation" in Docker settings, it may result in slower build times on ARM, but performance will be normal when deployed to x64 servers.

<br>

#### Step ⓶ - Build agent in VM

##### 1. Clone down the repo and create `.env` file from `.env.example`

```bash
cp ./.env.example ./.env
```

##### 2. Setup Agora App ID and App Certificate in `.env`

```bash
AGORA_APP_ID=
AGORA_APP_CERTIFICATE=
```

##### 3. Start agent development containers

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

##### 4. Enter container

```bash
docker exec -it ten_agent_dev bash
```

##### 5. Build agent with the default `graph` ( ~5min - ~8min)

check the `/examples` folder for more examples

```bash
task use
```

##### 6. Start the web server

```bash
task run
```

<br>

#### Step ⓷ - Customize your agent

 1. Open Up [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) and select a graph example
 2. Choose a corresponding module
 3. Select an extension and configure its API key and settings

<details>
  <summary><kbd>Module Picker Example</kbd></summary>

  <br>
  <picture>

  ![Module Picker Example](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/module-example.gif?raw=true)

  </picture>

</details>

Now, we have successfully set up the playground. This is just the beginning of TEN Agent. There are many different ways to explore and utilize TEN Agent. To learn more, please refer to the [documentation](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/overview).

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

#### 🅱️ Run Playground in Codespace(no docker)

GitHub offers free Codespace for each repository, you can run the playground in Codespace without using Docker.Also, the speed of Codespace is much faster than localhost.

[codespaces-shield]: <https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg>
[![][codespaces-shield]](https://codespaces.new/ten-framework/ten-agent)

Check out [this guide](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/setup_development_env/setting_up_development_inside_codespace) for more details.

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 👀 TEN Agent Demo

Playground and Demo server different purposes, in a nut shell, think it as Playground is for you to customize you agent, and Demo is for you to deploy your agent.

Check out [this guide](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/demo) for more details.
<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🛳️ Self Hosting

#### 🅰️ 🐳 Deploying with Docker

Once you have customized your agent (either by using the playground or editing `property.json` directly), you can deploy it by creating a release Docker image for your service.

Read the [Deployment Guide](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/deployment_ten_agent/deploy_agent_service) for detailed information about deployment.

<br>

#### 🅱️ Deploying with other cloud services

*coming soon...*

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🏗️ TEN Agent Architecture

1️⃣ **TEN Agent App**: Core application that manages extensions and data flow based on graph configuration

2️⃣ **Dev Server**: `port:49480`- local server for development purposes.

3️⃣ **Web Server**: `port:8080`- Golang server handling HTTP requests and agent process management

4️⃣ **Front-end UI**:

- `port:3000` Playground - To customize and test your agent configurations.
- `port:3002` Demo - To deploy your agent without module picker.

![Components Diagram](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/diagram.jpg?raw=true)

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🌍 TEN Framework Ecosystem

| [**🏚️ TEN Framework**][ten-framework-link]<br/>TEN, a AI agent framework to create various AI agents which supports real-time conversation.<br/><br/>![][ten-framework-shield] | ![][ten-framework-banner] |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------- |
| [**🎙️ TEN Agent**][ten-agent-link]<br/>TEN Agent is a conversational voice AI agent powered by TEN, integrating Deepseek, Gemini, OpenAI, RTC, and hardware like ESP32. It enables realtime AI capabilities like seeing, hearing, and speaking, and is fully compatible with platforms like Dify and Coze.<br/><br/>![][ten-agent-shield]                                                                           | ![][ten-agent-banner] |
| **🎨 TMAN Designer** `alpha`<br/>TMAN Designer is low/no code option to make a cool voice agent. With it's easy-to-use workflow UI, you can build things easily. It comes with runtime, dark/light themes, integrated editors and integrated terminals.<br/><br/>![][tman-designer-shield]                 | ![][tman-designer-banner] |
| **📒 TEN Portal**<br/>The official site of TEN framework, it has documentation, blog and showcases.<br/><br/>![][ten-docs-shield]                       | ![][ten-docs-banner]   |

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🥰 Contributing

We welcome all forms of open-source collaboration! Whether you're fixing bugs, adding features, improving documentation, or sharing ideas - your contributions help advance personalized AI tools. Check out our GitHub Issues and Projects to find ways to contribute and show your skills. Together, we can build something amazing!

<br>

> \[!TIP]
>
> **Welcome all kinds of contributions** 🙏
>
> Join us in building TEN better! Every contribution makes a difference, from code to documentation. Share your TEN Agent projects on social media with to inspire others!
>
> Connect with TEN maintainer [@elliotchen100](https://x.com/elliotchen100) on 𝕏 or [@cyfyifanchen](https://github.com/cyfyifanchen) on GitHub for project updates, discussions and collaboration opportunities.

<br>

### Code Contributors

[![TEN](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=TEN-framework/ten-agent)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/graphs/contributors)

### Contribution Guidelines

Contributions are welcome! Please read the [contribution guidelines](./docs/code-of-conduct/contributing.md) first.

### License

This project is [Apache 2.0](LICENSE) licensed.

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

[back-to-top]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-Back_to_top-gray?style=flat-square

[ten-framework-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ten-framework/ten_framework?color=ffcb47&labelColor=gray&style=flat-square&logo=github
[ten-agent-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ten-framework/ten-agent?color=ffcb47&labelColor=gray&style=flat-square&logo=github
[tman-designer-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ten-framework/ten_ai_base?color=ffcb47&labelColor=gray&style=flat-square&logo=github
[ten-docs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ten-framework/docs?color=ffcb47&labelColor=gray&style=flat-square&logo=github

[ten-framework-link]: https://github.com/ten-framework/ten_framework
[ten-agent-link]: https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent

[ten-framework-banner]: https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/1.jpg?raw=true
[ten-agent-banner]: https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/3.jpg?raw=true
[tman-designer-banner]: https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/4.jpg?raw=true
[ten-docs-banner]: https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/2.jpg?raw=true

Commit message:

Enhance README.md with detailed MCP server integration instructions
- Update the "TEN Agent + MCP" section to provide a step-by-step guide for integrating MCP servers.
- Emphasize the benefits of using MCP servers with TEN Agent's conversational capabilities.

README.md, after:

<div align="center"> <a name="readme-top"></a>

![TEN Agent banner](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/banner.jpg?raw=true)

[![Follow on X](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/TenFramework?logo=X&color=%20%23f5f5f5)](https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=TenFramework)
[![Discussion posts](https://img.shields.io/github/discussions/TEN-framework/ten-agent?labelColor=%20%23FDB062&color=%20%23f79009)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/discussions/)
[![Commits](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/TEN-framework/ten-agent?labelColor=%20%237d89b0&color=%20%235d6b98)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/graphs/commit-activity)
[![Issues closed](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search?query=repo%3ATEN-framework%2Ften-agent%20is%3Aclosed&label=issues%20closed&labelColor=green&color=green)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/issues)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/pulls)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg?labelColor=%20%23155EEF&color=%20%23528bff)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/LICENSE)

[![Discord TEN Community](https://dcbadge.vercel.app/api/server/VnPftUzAMJ)](https://discord.gg/VnPftUzAMJ)

[![GitHub watchers](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/TEN-framework/ten-agent?style=social&label=Watch)](https://GitHub.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/watchers/?WT.mc_id=academic-105485-koreyst)
[![GitHub forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/TEN-framework/ten-agent?style=social&label=Fork)](https://GitHub.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/network/?WT.mc_id=academic-105485-koreyst)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/TEN-framework/ten-agent?style=social&label=Star)](https://GitHub.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/stargazers/?WT.mc_id=academic-105485-koreyst)

<a href="https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/README.md"><img alt="README in English" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/English-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-CN.md"><img alt="简体中文操作指南" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/简体中文-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-JP.md"><img alt="日本語のREADME" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/日本語-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-KR.md"><img alt="README in 한국어" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/한국어-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-ES.md"><img alt="README en Español" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Español-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-FR.md"><img alt="README en Français" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Français-lightgrey"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent/blob/main/docs/readmes/README-IT.md"><img alt="README in Italiano" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Italiano-lightgrey"></a>

[Documentation](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/overview)
<span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
[Getting Started](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/getting_started)
<span>&nbsp;&nbsp;•&nbsp;&nbsp;</span>
[TEN Framework Repository](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten_framework)

<a href="https://trendshift.io/repositories/11978" target="_blank"><img src="https://trendshift.io/api/badge/repositories/11978" alt="TEN-framework%2FTEN-Agent | Trendshift" style="width: 250px; height: 55px;" width="250" height="55"/></a>

</div>

<br>

<details open>
  <summary><kbd>Table of Contents</kbd></summary>

#### Table of Contents

- [👋 Getting Started & Join TEN Community](#-getting-started--join-ten-community)
- [✨ Features](#-features)
  - [1️⃣ 🔥 TEN Agent + MCP](#1️⃣--ten-agent--mcp)
  - [2️⃣ TEN Agent + Trulience](#2️⃣-ten-agent--trulience)
  - [3️⃣ TEN Agent + Deepseek](#3️⃣-ten-agent--deepseek)
  - [4️⃣ TEN Agent + ESP32](#4️⃣-ten-agent--esp32)
  - [5️⃣ TEN Agent + Gemini Multimodal Live API](#5️⃣-ten-agent--gemini-multimodal-live-api)
  - [6️⃣ TEN Agent + Storyteller + Image Generator](#6️⃣-ten-agent--storyteller--image-generator)
  - [7️⃣ TEN Agent + Dify](#7️⃣-ten-agent--dify)
  - [8️⃣ TEN Agent + Coze](#8️⃣-ten-agent--coze)
- [💡 TEN Agent Usecases](#-ten-agent-usecases)
- [🧩 Ready to use Extensions](#-ready-to-use-extensions)
- [🛝 TEN Agent Playground](#-ten-agent-playground)
  - [️️🅰 Run Playground in `localhost`](#🅰️-run-playground-in-localhost)
  - [️🅱 Run Playground in Codespace(no docker)](#🅱️-run-playground-in-codespaceno-docker)
- [👀 TEN Agent Demo](#-ten-agent-demo)
- [🛳️ Self Hosting](#️-self-hosting)
  - [🅰 Deploying with Docker](#🅰️--deploying-with-docker)
  - [🅱 Deploying with other services](#🅱️-deploying-with-other-services)
- [🏗️ TEN Agent Architecture](#️-ten-agent-architecture)
- [🌍 TEN Framework Ecosystem](#-ten-framework-ecosystem)
- [🥰 Contributing](#-contributing)

<br/>

</details>

## 👋 Getting Started & Join TEN Community

TEN Agent is a conversational voice AI agent powered by TEN, integrating **DeepSeek**, **Gemini**, **OpenAI**, **RTC**, and hardware like **ESP32**. It enables realtime AI capabilities like seeing, hearing, and speaking, and is fully compatible with platforms like **Dify** and **Coze**.

<br>

| Community Channel | Purpose |
|------------------|----------|
| [![Discord TEN Community](https://dcbadge.vercel.app/api/server/VnPftUzAMJ?&style=flat&theme=light&color=lightgray)](https://discord.gg/VnPftUzAMJ) | Join our Discord community to connect with developers |
| [![Follow on X](https://img.shields.io/badge/TenFramework-692_Followers-07C160?logo=x&labelColor=blue&color=gray)](https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=TenFramework) | Follow TEN Framework on X for updates and announcements |
|[![WeChat](https://img.shields.io/badge/TEN_Framework-1K+_members-%2307C160?logo=wechat&labelColor=darkgreen&color=gray)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/discussions/170) | Join our WeChat group for Chinese community discussions |

<br>

> \[!IMPORTANT]
>
> **Star Our Repository** ⭐️
>
> Get instant notifications for new releases and updates. Your support helps us grow and improve TEN Agent!

<br>

![TEN star us gif](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/star_us_2.gif?raw=true)

<details>
  <summary><kbd>Star History</kbd></summary>
  <picture>
    <img width="100%" src="https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=ten-framework/ten-agent&type=Date">
  </picture>
</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## ✨ Features

### 1️⃣ 🔥 TEN Agent + MCP

TEN Agent now integrates seamlessly with MCP servers, expanding its LLM capabilities. To get started:

1. Open the Module Picker in Playground
2. Add the MCP server tool for LLM integration
3. Choose any MCP server from [mcp.so](https://mcp.so) and paste its URL
4. Start conversing with TEN Agent powered by your chosen MCP server

This integration allows you to leverage MCP's diverse servers offerings while maintaining TEN Agent's powerful conversational abilities.

</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

### 2️⃣ TEN Agent + Trulience

Build engaging AI avatars with TEN Agent using [Trulience](https://trulience.com)'s diverse collection of free avatar options. To get it up and running, you only need 2 steps:

1. Follow the README to finish setting up and running the Playground in `localhost:3000`
2. Enter the avatar ID and [token](https://trulience.com/docs#/authentication/jwt-tokens/jwt-tokens?id=use-your-custom-userid) you get from [Trulience](https://trulience.com)

<details>
  <summary><kbd>TEN Agent + Trulience</kbd></summary>

  <br>
  <picture>

  ![TEN Agent with Trulience](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/ten-trulience.gif?raw=true)

  </picture>

</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 3️⃣ TEN Agent + DeepSeek

TEN is a very versatile framework. That said, TEN Agent is compatible with DeepSeek R1, try experiencing realtime conversations with DeepSeek R1!

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 4️⃣ TEN Agent + ESP32

TEN Agent is now running on the Espressif ESP32-S3 Korvo V3 development board, an excellent way to integrate realtime communication with LLM on hardware.

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 5️⃣ TEN Agent + Gemini Multimodal Live API

Try Google Gemini Multimodal Live API with realtime vision and realtime screenshare detection capabilities, it is a ready-to-use extension, along with powerful tools like Weather Check and Web Search integrated perfectly into TEN Agent.

<details>
  <summary><kbd>Gemini 2.0 Multimodal Live API</kbd></summary>

  <br>
  <picture>

  ![Usecases](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/gemini.gif?raw=true)

  </picture>

</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 6️⃣ TEN Agent + Storyteller + Image Generator

Describe a topic and ask TEN Agent to tell you a story while also generating images of the story to provide a more immersive experience for kids.

<details>
  <summary><kbd>Storyteller + Image Generator</kbd></summary>

  <br>
  <picture>

  ![Usecases](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/storyteller_image_generator.jpg?raw=true)

  </picture>

</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 7️⃣ TEN Agent + Dify

  [TEN Agent + Dify](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/quickstart-1/use-cases/run_va/run_dify)  

TEN offers a great support to make the realtime interactive experience even better on other LLM platform as well, check out docs for more.

<details>
  <summary><kbd>TEN Agent + Dify with RAG</kbd></summary>

  <br>
  <picture>

  ![Dify with RAG](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/dify-rag.gif?raw=true)

  </picture>

</details>

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

### 8️⃣ TEN Agent + Coze

  [TEN Agent + Coze](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/quickstart-1/use-cases/run_va/run_coze)  

TEN seamlessly integrates with Coze platform to enhance real-time interactive experiences. Check out our documentation to learn how to leverage these powerful integrations.

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 💡 TEN Agent Usecases

![Usecases](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/usecases.jpg?raw=true)

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🧩 Ready-to-use Extensions

![Ready-to-use Extensions](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/extensions.jpg?raw=true)

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🛝 TEN Agent Playground

#### 🅰️ Run Playground in localhost

#### Step ⓵ - Prerequisites

| Category | Requirements |
|----------|-------------|
| **Keys** | • Agora [App ID](https://docs.agora.io/en/video-calling/get-started/manage-agora-account?platform=web#create-an-agora-project) and [App Certificate](https://docs.agora.io/en/video-calling/get-started/manage-agora-account?platform=web#create-an-agora-project) (free minutes every month) <br>• [OpenAI](https://openai.com/index/openai-api/) API key (any LLM that is compatible with OpenAI)<br>• [Deepgram](https://deepgram.com/) ASR (free credits available with signup)<br>• [Elevenlabs](https://elevenlabs.io/) TTS (free credits available with signup)|
| **Installation** | • [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) / [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/)<br>• [Node.js(LTS) v18](https://nodejs.org/en) |
| **Minimum System Requirements** | • CPU >= 2 Core<br>• RAM >= 4 GB |

<br>

> \[!NOTE]
>
> **macOS: Docker setting on Apple Silicon**
>
> Uncheck "Use Rosetta for x86/amd64 emulation" in Docker settings, it may result in slower build times on ARM, but performance will be normal when deployed to x64 servers.

<br>

#### Step ⓶ - Build agent in VM

##### 1. Clone down the repo and create `.env` file from `.env.example`

```bash
cp ./.env.example ./.env
```

##### 2. Setup Agora App ID and App Certificate in `.env`

```bash
AGORA_APP_ID=
AGORA_APP_CERTIFICATE=
```

##### 3. Start agent development containers

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

##### 4. Enter container

```bash
docker exec -it ten_agent_dev bash
```

##### 5. Build agent with the default `graph` ( ~5min - ~8min)

check the `/examples` folder for more examples

```bash
task use
```

##### 6. Start the web server

```bash
task run
```

<br>

#### Step ⓷ - Customize your agent

 1. Open Up [localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) and select a graph example
 2. Choose a corresponding module
 3. Select an extension and configure its API key and settings

<details>
  <summary><kbd>Module Picker Example</kbd></summary>

  <br>
  <picture>

  ![Module Picker Example](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/gif/module-example.gif?raw=true)

  </picture>

</details>

Now, we have successfully set up the playground. This is just the beginning of TEN Agent. There are many different ways to explore and utilize TEN Agent. To learn more, please refer to the [documentation](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/overview).

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

#### 🅱️ Run Playground in Codespace(no docker)

GitHub offers free Codespace for each repository, you can run the playground in Codespace without using Docker.Also, the speed of Codespace is much faster than localhost.

[codespaces-shield]: <https://github.com/codespaces/badge.svg>
[![][codespaces-shield]](https://codespaces.new/ten-framework/ten-agent)

Check out [this guide](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/setup_development_env/setting_up_development_inside_codespace) for more details.

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 👀 TEN Agent Demo

Playground and Demo server different purposes, in a nut shell, think it as Playground is for you to customize you agent, and Demo is for you to deploy your agent.

Check out [this guide](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/demo) for more details.
<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🛳️ Self Hosting

#### 🅰️ 🐳 Deploying with Docker

Once you have customized your agent (either by using the playground or editing `property.json` directly), you can deploy it by creating a release Docker image for your service.

Read the [Deployment Guide](https://doc.theten.ai/docs/ten_agent/deployment_ten_agent/deploy_agent_service) for detailed information about deployment.

<br>

#### 🅱️ Deploying with other cloud services

*coming soon...*

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🏗️ TEN Agent Architecture

1️⃣ **TEN Agent App**: Core application that manages extensions and data flow based on graph configuration

2️⃣ **Dev Server**: `port:49480`- local server for development purposes.

3️⃣ **Web Server**: `port:8080`- Golang server handling HTTP requests and agent process management

4️⃣ **Front-end UI**:

- `port:3000` Playground - To customize and test your agent configurations.
- `port:3002` Demo - To deploy your agent without module picker.

![Components Diagram](https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/diagram.jpg?raw=true)

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🌍 TEN Framework Ecosystem

| [**🏚️ TEN Framework**][ten-framework-link]<br/>TEN, a AI agent framework to create various AI agents which supports real-time conversation.<br/><br/>![][ten-framework-shield] | ![][ten-framework-banner] |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------- |
| [**🎙️ TEN Agent**][ten-agent-link]<br/>TEN Agent is a conversational voice AI agent powered by TEN, integrating Deepseek, Gemini, OpenAI, RTC, and hardware like ESP32. It enables realtime AI capabilities like seeing, hearing, and speaking, and is fully compatible with platforms like Dify and Coze.<br/><br/>![][ten-agent-shield]                                                                           | ![][ten-agent-banner] |
| **🎨 TMAN Designer** `alpha`<br/>TMAN Designer is low/no code option to make a cool voice agent. With it's easy-to-use workflow UI, you can build things easily. It comes with runtime, dark/light themes, integrated editors and integrated terminals.<br/><br/>![][tman-designer-shield]                 | ![][tman-designer-banner] |
| **📒 TEN Portal**<br/>The official site of TEN framework, it has documentation, blog and showcases.<br/><br/>![][ten-docs-shield]                       | ![][ten-docs-banner]   |

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

<br>

## 🥰 Contributing

We welcome all forms of open-source collaboration! Whether you're fixing bugs, adding features, improving documentation, or sharing ideas - your contributions help advance personalized AI tools. Check out our GitHub Issues and Projects to find ways to contribute and show your skills. Together, we can build something amazing!

<br>

> \[!TIP]
>
> **Welcome all kinds of contributions** 🙏
>
> Join us in building TEN better! Every contribution makes a difference, from code to documentation. Share your TEN Agent projects on social media with to inspire others!
>
> Connect with TEN maintainer [@elliotchen100](https://x.com/elliotchen100) on 𝕏 or [@cyfyifanchen](https://github.com/cyfyifanchen) on GitHub for project updates, discussions and collaboration opportunities.

<br>

### Code Contributors

[![TEN](https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=TEN-framework/ten-agent)](https://github.com/TEN-framework/ten-agent/graphs/contributors)

### Contribution Guidelines

Contributions are welcome! Please read the [contribution guidelines](./docs/code-of-conduct/contributing.md) first.

### License

This project is [Apache 2.0](LICENSE) licensed.

<div align="right">

[![][back-to-top]](#readme-top)

</div>

[back-to-top]: https://img.shields.io/badge/-Back_to_top-gray?style=flat-square

[ten-framework-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ten-framework/ten_framework?color=ffcb47&labelColor=gray&style=flat-square&logo=github
[ten-agent-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ten-framework/ten-agent?color=ffcb47&labelColor=gray&style=flat-square&logo=github
[tman-designer-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ten-framework/ten_ai_base?color=ffcb47&labelColor=gray&style=flat-square&logo=github
[ten-docs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/ten-framework/docs?color=ffcb47&labelColor=gray&style=flat-square&logo=github

[ten-framework-link]: https://github.com/ten-framework/ten_framework
[ten-agent-link]: https://github.com/ten-framework/ten-agent

[ten-framework-banner]: https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/1.jpg?raw=true
[ten-agent-banner]: https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/3.jpg?raw=true
[tman-designer-banner]: https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/4.jpg?raw=true
[ten-docs-banner]: https://github.com/TEN-framework/docs/blob/main/assets/jpg/2.jpg?raw=true
